,Date,Authors,Summary,Keywords,Text,Url
0,2016-01-02,['John Otis'],"Those frequent trips to Philadelphia made it difficult for Mr. Bikov to stay on top of his college studies.
Mr. Bikov eventually dropped out of college, but that is where he met Sofiya Edzelman, 26.
He lived in America, where people took care of others, so he expected unemployment benefits to be enough to support him until he found work.
“That’s what I’m trying to do.”Whatever Mr. Bikov may lack in prospects or possibilities, he makes up for with optimism.
“It’s a cliché, the phrase ‘God bless America,’ ” Mr. Bikov said.","['unemployment', 'man', 'job', 'work', 'york', 'jewish', 'america', 'community', 'mr', 'discovers', 'heritage', 'neediest', 'bikov', 'possibilities', 'benefits']","Those frequent trips to Philadelphia made it difficult for Mr. Bikov to stay on top of his college studies.

“Every weekend, instead of studying or getting a job opportunity, or something, I was traveling,” he said.

Mr. Bikov eventually dropped out of college, but that is where he met Sofiya Edzelman, 26.

They married in 2013 and had a son, Aharon, in 2014. That year, Mr. Bikov found work as a community and personal liaison at a hospice. Ms. Edzelman is unable to work because she is in the country on a student visa.

In August, Mr. Bikov was laid off from his job. He was largely unfazed, he said. He lived in America, where people took care of others, so he expected unemployment benefits to be enough to support him until he found work. His application for unemployment was denied because he did not fill it out and submit it properly.

When he fell behind in rent, Mr. Bikov went to Edith and Carl Marks Jewish Community House of Bensonhurst, a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation of New York, one of the seven organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The community house used $976 in Neediest Cases funds to help pay his back rent.

The agency also helped Mr. Bikov get his unemployment benefits. He began receiving $425 weekly at the end of October. Although full-time employment eludes him, he recently started a part-time job as a home aide for a disabled child. He also volunteers at Sinai Academy, leading youth activities.

He hopes that by performing good deeds, benefits will come to him in return.

“If you fill up your cup, as the Jewish metaphor says, it will overflow and fill up other cups,” he said. “That’s what I’m trying to do.”

Whatever Mr. Bikov may lack in prospects or possibilities, he makes up for with optimism.

“It’s a cliché, the phrase ‘God bless America,’ ” Mr. Bikov said. “But absolutely, I can never get enough of it, or stop being excited over it, the possibilities people have in this country.”",https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/02/nyregion/in-america-a-man-discovers-his-jewish-heritage.html
1,2016-01-03,['John Searles'],"Plenty of restaurants draw a crowd, not because of their cuisine but because of their star-studded clientele.
“The line is meant to be tongue-in-cheek,” said Nicholas Gurney, who opened the restaurant last January with Tapos Singha, its chef, who is a Bangladesh native.
The rind of that last ingredient, a citrus fruit from Bangladesh, gives the dish a slightly sour flavor.
“In Sydney, the trend is for waiters to wear white T-shirts and neutral aprons,” Mr. Gurney said.
“But we wanted to counter that with a more unique look.”","['gurney', 'singha', 'bangladesh', 'sydney', 'white', 'mr', 'celebrities', 'plate', 'place', 'youth', 'stars', 'wear', 'restaurant']","Plenty of restaurants draw a crowd, not because of their cuisine but because of their star-studded clientele. At trendy Bang in the Surry Hills neighborhood of Sydney, a message atop the menu announces that the place is a “favourite of celebrities.” But that does not mean diners are in for great people-watching at the risk of a lackluster meal.

“The line is meant to be tongue-in-cheek,” said Nicholas Gurney, who opened the restaurant last January with Tapos Singha, its chef, who is a Bangladesh native. “Since it’s not the sort of place where celebrities flock, we thought it was funny.”

Lucky for these two, noncelebrities have flocked for the real attraction: the A-list dishes put out by Mr. Singha that celebrate the street food of his youth. He always adds a twist, as in his favorite, inspired by the spicy omelets he ate as a child: a duck egg version with blue swimmer crabs, green chiles, grape tomatoes and garlic chives. Or a wagyu tri-tip curry with chive flowers and shatkora. The rind of that last ingredient, a citrus fruit from Bangladesh, gives the dish a slightly sour flavor.

Staff uniforms are equally distinctive.

“In Sydney, the trend is for waiters to wear white T-shirts and neutral aprons,” Mr. Gurney said. “But we wanted to counter that with a more unique look.”",https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/03/travel/bang-sydney-restaurant-review.html
2,2016-01-03,['Alan Schwarz'],"Ms. Pankova grew addicted to the beverage itself.
Only during another stay in rehab did Ms. Pankova learn that the drink’s primary ingredient, a Southeast Asian leaf called kratom, affects the brain like an opiate and can be addictive, too.
“It’s preying on the weak and the broken,” said Ms. Pankova, 23, a Brooklyn native who received treatment in Delray Beach.
“It’s a mind-altering substance, so people like me who are addicts and alcoholics, they think just because it’s legal, it’s fine.
Worse, some of those experts say, kratom can lead some addicts back to heroin, which is cheaper and stronger.","['addictive', 'stronger', 'say', 'pankova', 'delray', 'ms', 'legal', 'kratom', 'experts', 'heroin', 'substance', 'addicts', 'alternative']","DELRAY BEACH, Fla. — Three shaky months into recovery from heroin addiction, Dariya Pankova found something to ease her withdrawal. A local nonalcoholic bar sold a brewed beverage that soothed her brain and body much as narcotics had. A perfect solution — before it backfired.

Ms. Pankova grew addicted to the beverage itself. She drank more and more, awakened her cravings for the stronger high of heroin, and relapsed. Only during another stay in rehab did Ms. Pankova learn that the drink’s primary ingredient, a Southeast Asian leaf called kratom, affects the brain like an opiate and can be addictive, too.

“It’s preying on the weak and the broken,” said Ms. Pankova, 23, a Brooklyn native who received treatment in Delray Beach. “It’s a mind-altering substance, so people like me who are addicts and alcoholics, they think just because it’s legal, it’s fine. It’s a huge epidemic down here, and it’s causing a lot of relapses.”

Some users embrace kratom as a natural painkiller and benign substitute for more dangerous substances that, in most states, is legal. But its growing popularity and easy availability are raising concerns among substance abuse experts and government officials who say it is being furtively marketed as a way out of addiction, even though it is itself addictive. Worse, some of those experts say, kratom can lead some addicts back to heroin, which is cheaper and stronger.",https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/03/us/kratom-an-addicts-alternative-is-found-to-be-addictive-itself.html
3,2016-01-03,['Leigh Ann Henion'],"“You think you’re going to go out there and find some job you enjoy?
You think you’re going to find a job that’s going to make you happy?
I knew, at that point in my life, that my normally supportive but increasingly worried parents were going to say similar things.
“You think I want to be here?”He didn’t seem to realize that, with this, he had revealed too much.
That, somehow, his definition of work evolved into something that did not immediately equate with being unhappy and unfulfilled.","['ways', 'wallet', 'wasnt', 'job', 'thats', 'nourishes', 'work', 'youre', 'going', 'soul', 'think', 'whod', 'things']","I admitted that I wasn’t sure. He digested this for a moment. “Sometimes, we have to do things we don’t want to do. That’s just life. That’s how you make money,” he said. “You think you’re going to go out there and find some job you enjoy? You think you’re going to find a job that’s going to make you happy? Grow up!”

Heat rose in my cheeks. My eyes started to sting. I knew, at that point in my life, that my normally supportive but increasingly worried parents were going to say similar things. I wanted to run off to the staff refrigerator and cry into a cup of yogurt. But the lawyer wasn’t done.

“You think I want to do this?” he said. “You think I want to be here?”

He didn’t seem to realize that, with this, he had revealed too much. I knew from past conversations that he was a third-generation lawyer. But I hadn’t realized, until that moment, what that meant for him. Instead of taking advantage of this privileged legacy in ways that would fulfill him in nonfinancial ways, he had been carrying it as a personal burden. Almost immediately, I forgave his tone.

I left exactly two weeks after giving my notice, and I dearly hope that my young boss ended up leaving, too. I hope — even if he failed at becoming the music industry’s go-to legal counsel, a Dave Matthews roadie, or whatever sort of work he might have enjoyed — that he ultimately found a job he did not resent. That, somehow, his definition of work evolved into something that did not immediately equate with being unhappy and unfulfilled.

The week after I quit, I found a temporary position in a gift shop, just two blocks away from the lobby where I’d once spent whole days looking forward to the joyous human interaction of a UPS delivery. In retail, I made half of what I’d made, per hour, as a receptionist. I had no health insurance, much less a 401(k). But there were plenty of benefits.

I spent my days among shelves of stained-glass kaleidoscopes. I chatted with a roving cast of locals and tourists, immersed in an environment of handcrafted beauty, each artwork representative of someone who’d taken a nontraditional career path — a painter who’d left her job in the insurance industry, a sculptor who did auto body work on the side. Similarly inspiring was the shopkeeper, a gray-haired woman who squirreled away funds during the high season and traveled the world, hostel hopping, for the rest of the year.

My favorite pieces in the store were blown-glass paperweights made to look like constellations. They were heavy in my hand, orbs the size of whole-palm marbles. They encapsulated the awe of ringed planets and entire universes.",https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/03/jobs/a-job-that-nourishes-the-soul-if-not-the-wallet.html
4,2016-01-04,['Eric Lichtblau'],"In its latest push, the group is funding an ad campaign for players from the National Basketball Association to speak out against gun violence.
It has chapters in all 50 states, with registered lobbyists in 31 of them, adopting a structure used to great effectiveness by the N.R.A.
Mr. Bloomberg has pledged to spend at least $50 million of his own money in the group’s push for tougher gun restrictions — a level of spending that Jennifer Baker, an N.R.A.
official, called “obscene.”In some races, gun control advocates are outspending the deep-pocketed N.R.A.
They believe their cause was buoyed last month when the Supreme Court let stand an ordinance in a Chicago suburb that bans semiautomatic assault weapons.","['races', 'supporters', 'million', 'advocates', 'infusion', 'bloomberg', 'push', 'buoy', 'restrictions', 'nra', 'spending', 'gun', 'control', 'state', 'focus', 'funding']","“The money was almost exclusively on the pro-gun side of the fence before, and we were always accused of spending our way to victory,” said Richard Feldman, a former N.R.A. executive who leads the Independent Firearms Owners Association. “Now the other side has these resources from Michael Bloomberg to get involved in these state and local races, something they didn’t have before.”

The organization Everytown for Gun Safety — which received $36 million in contributions last year, with the biggest chunk coming from Mr. Bloomberg — has eclipsed a number of older gun control groups in publicity and influence. In its latest push, the group is funding an ad campaign for players from the National Basketball Association to speak out against gun violence.

The group, created in 2014 after the slaughter in 2012 of 26 children and adults at an elementary school in Newtown, Conn., says its supporters have now grown to three million nationwide, including survivors of shootings, mayors, police officers, celebrities, and rank-and-file supporters. It has chapters in all 50 states, with registered lobbyists in 31 of them, adopting a structure used to great effectiveness by the N.R.A. itself. Mr. Bloomberg has pledged to spend at least $50 million of his own money in the group’s push for tougher gun restrictions — a level of spending that Jennifer Baker, an N.R.A. official, called “obscene.”

In some races, gun control advocates are outspending the deep-pocketed N.R.A. And after the mass shooting in San Bernardino, Calif., and earlier rampages at a Planned Parenthood facility in Colorado, a community college in Oregon and a church in Charleston, S.C., gun control advocates said they planned to expand their push for stiffer local restrictions still further. They believe their cause was buoyed last month when the Supreme Court let stand an ordinance in a Chicago suburb that bans semiautomatic assault weapons.",https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/04/us/politics/state-focus-and-infusion-of-funding-buoy-gun-control-advocates.html
5,2016-01-10,['The New York Times'],"Each January, the editors of the Travel section publish our Places to Go issue.
And each year after we do, readers wonder why their favorite destination was overlooked or why their least favorite made the top 10.
To add some clarity to the process, we’ve decided to answer some frequently asked questions about how we chose our 52 Places to Go in 2016.
We aim for a selection of places that we expect to be particularly compelling in the coming year; reasons might include a museum opening, a new transportation option or a historical anniversary.
So even though cities like Paris, Rome and Tokyo are always exciting, they didn’t make the cut.","['2016', 'wonder', 'weve', 'writers', 'transportation', 'start', 'travel', 'picked', '52', 'thosewhat', 'places', 'favorite', 'tokyo']","Each January, the editors of the Travel section publish our Places to Go issue. And each year after we do, readers wonder why their favorite destination was overlooked or why their least favorite made the top 10. To add some clarity to the process, we’ve decided to answer some frequently asked questions about how we chose our 52 Places to Go in 2016.



How do you start the process?

First we contact dozens of contributing writers, many of them based overseas, for suggestions. We receive a few hundred ideas, and start with those.

What are you looking for in those ideas?

We aim for a selection of places that we expect to be particularly compelling in the coming year; reasons might include a museum opening, a new transportation option or a historical anniversary. So even though cities like Paris, Rome and Tokyo are always exciting, they didn’t make the cut.",https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/10/travel/faq-52-places-to-go-in-2016.html
6,2016-01-10,[],"So many places to go, right?
But also so many ways to get to them.
TRAINThe Venice-Simplon Orient Express, that legendary long-distance passenger train service immortalized by Agatha Christie, Bram Stoker and countless others, is reinstating its historic route between London, Paris and Berlin in restored 1920s Art Deco carriages.
The 35-mile-long mega-tunnel connects Switzerland’s Swiss-German-speaking Canton Uri to Italian-speaking Ticino before continuing to Lake Como and Milan.
The old tracks will still function as local lines, some becoming new scenic routes for tourists.","['ways', 'service', 'berlin', 'zurich', 'yeartrainthe', 'milan', 'london', 'worlds', 'hours', 'tunnel', '52', 'places', 'paris']","So many places to go, right? But also so many ways to get to them. Here are a few to look out for this year.

TRAIN

The Venice-Simplon Orient Express, that legendary long-distance passenger train service immortalized by Agatha Christie, Bram Stoker and countless others, is reinstating its historic route between London, Paris and Berlin in restored 1920s Art Deco carriages. The two-day overnight journey, which starts at $3,359 per person and includes meal service, a bar car with live piano music and afternoon tea service, makes its inaugural departure from London to Berlin via Paris on June 2.

After 17 years of boring through the Swiss Alps, the Gotthard Base rail tunnel — among the world’s longest and deepest tunnels — will open this year, ahead of schedule. The 35-mile-long mega-tunnel connects Switzerland’s Swiss-German-speaking Canton Uri to Italian-speaking Ticino before continuing to Lake Como and Milan. New high-speed trains, introduced in 2014, will begin to run through the tunnel, reducing Zurich to Milan transit from four hours to just under three hours; another tunnel opening in 2020 will shave off another 30 minutes. The old tracks will still function as local lines, some becoming new scenic routes for tourists.",https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/10/travel/places-to-visit-transportation.html
7,2016-01-12,"['Alissa J. Rubin', 'Stephen Castle']","PARIS — The man believed to be the coordinator of the Nov. 13 terrorist attacks in Paris had previously traveled undetected to Britain despite being named in an international arrest warrant for his role in a foiled plot in Belgium in early 2015, European law enforcement officials said Monday.
Officials said they had recovered photos from the cellphone of the man, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, that included snapshots of major London landmarks.
Belgian law enforcement officials confirmed that photographs of British landmarks were on Mr. Abaaoud’s cellphone, which was captured by the French police during a raid in the Paris suburb of St.-Denis five days after the attacks.
Mr. Abaaoud and two others were killed in the raid.
The exact dates of Mr. Abaaoud’s trip and the full list of places he visited remain unclear, as do his reasons for visiting Britain.","['say', 'britain', 'traveled', 'man', 'law', 'abaaoud', 'mr', 'cellphone', 'officials', 'suspect', 'enforcement', 'paris', 'landmarks', 'attacks']","PARIS — The man believed to be the coordinator of the Nov. 13 terrorist attacks in Paris had previously traveled undetected to Britain despite being named in an international arrest warrant for his role in a foiled plot in Belgium in early 2015, European law enforcement officials said Monday.

Officials said they had recovered photos from the cellphone of the man, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, that included snapshots of major London landmarks. The confirmation that Mr. Abaaoud had been able to enter Britain, reportedly through a ferry terminal at Dover, led the opposition Labour Party on Monday to call for an “urgent review” of security at British seaports.

Belgian law enforcement officials confirmed that photographs of British landmarks were on Mr. Abaaoud’s cellphone, which was captured by the French police during a raid in the Paris suburb of St.-Denis five days after the attacks. Mr. Abaaoud and two others were killed in the raid.

The exact dates of Mr. Abaaoud’s trip and the full list of places he visited remain unclear, as do his reasons for visiting Britain.",https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/12/world/europe/top-suspect-in-paris-attacks-had-traveled-to-britain-officials-say.html
8,2016-01-17,['Norm Alster'],"Recent data also show that defaults on various types of consumer loans have been ticking up.
Consumer debt cuts both ways, of course.
Some analysts say debt is still in the helpful stages and consumer spending therefore has room for nontoxic growth.
He predicted consumer spending would grow 3.1 percent in 2016, spurred by gains in jobs and wages.
Jay Nogueira, head of the global consumer sector for T. Rowe Price, was cautiously bullish about the consumer discretionary sector.","['sector', 'loans', 'consumers', 'room', 'financial', 'signs', 'rebound', 'housing', 'debt', 'retail', 'spending', 'consumer', 'head', 'growth']","Recent data also show that defaults on various types of consumer loans have been ticking up. Default rates on bank cards, first mortgages and auto loans rose in November, according to the S&P/Experian Consumer Credit Default Indices.

Consumer debt cuts both ways, of course. In moderation, it can help encourage economic activity. Carried too far, it can create bubbles that threaten the economy. Some analysts say debt is still in the helpful stages and consumer spending therefore has room for nontoxic growth. “We still see the consumer leading economic growth,” said Sam Stovall, United States equity strategist with S&P Capital IQ. He predicted consumer spending would grow 3.1 percent in 2016, spurred by gains in jobs and wages.

Jay Nogueira, head of the global consumer sector for T. Rowe Price, was cautiously bullish about the consumer discretionary sector. Credit card debt per household is $6,900, he said, placing it only at 2004 levels, well below the 2007 peak of $8,600. In addition, he said, “Housing is set up for a long and steady recovery, as opposed to boom and bust.” He favors stocks like Home Depot, Williams-Sonoma, Whirlpool and Mohawk Industries.

One argument for a continuing housing rebound comes from Brad Sorensen, head of market and sector analysis for the Schwab Center for Financial Research. Homeownership peaked before the financial crisis at 69 percent, he said, and has fallen to about 63 percent. There is room for growth, he said.",https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/17/business/mutfund/signs-of-a-retail-rebound-as-consumers-take-on-more-debt.html
9,2016-01-17,['Vivian Yee'],"In August 2014, Yvette Teixeira’s eldest daughter, Makayla, who had been born with sickle cell anemia, was suddenly much sicker than usual.
She was taken to the hospital, where a doctor examined her and sent her home, Ms. Teixeira recalled.
Her spleen, her family learned later, had rapidly enlarged, but emergency room doctors had not detected its growth.
“I just kind of remember sitting in the middle of the street, screaming,” as an ambulance drove Makayla’s body away, Ms. Teixeira said.
I feel cheated.”Even before her daughter’s death, Ms. Teixeira, 43, and her family had known mostly setbacks, chaos and poverty.","['screaming', 'mustering', 'remain', 'teixeira', 'daughter', 'makayla', 'losing', 'ms', 'family', 'sisters', 'yvette', 'apart', 'strength', 'meghan', 'born']","She called them her four M&M’s: Meghan and Mishelle, Makayla and Mya, each born a year apart, a tribe of sisters who walked in lock step and looked after each other when they got sick.

In August 2014, Yvette Teixeira’s eldest daughter, Makayla, who had been born with sickle cell anemia, was suddenly much sicker than usual. One moment she would be fine, the next, screaming in pain. She was taken to the hospital, where a doctor examined her and sent her home, Ms. Teixeira recalled. By the end of her second day back home, she was dead. Her spleen, her family learned later, had rapidly enlarged, but emergency room doctors had not detected its growth.

“I just kind of remember sitting in the middle of the street, screaming,” as an ambulance drove Makayla’s body away, Ms. Teixeira said. “This could’ve been avoided. I feel cheated.”

Even before her daughter’s death, Ms. Teixeira, 43, and her family had known mostly setbacks, chaos and poverty. But now the family was torn apart, and it showed in every aspect of its members’ lives: There was no part of their neighborhood where they could walk without thinking of Makayla, no night the three remaining sisters did not sleep in the same twin bed for comfort. Meghan confided that she was scared. She was 9, going on 10; Makayla had not made it to 10.",https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/17/nyregion/after-losing-a-daughter-mustering-strength-for-3-who-remain.html
